Ubiquitous computing (or "ubicomp") is a concept in software
engineering, hardware engineering and computer science where computing
is made to appear anytime and everywhere. In contrast to desktop
computing, ubiquitous computing can occur using any device, in any
location, and in any format. A user interacts with the computer, which
can exist in many different forms, including laptop computers,
tablets, smart phones and terminals in everyday objects such as a
refrigerator or a pair of glasses. The underlying technologies to
support ubiquitous computing include Internet, advanced middleware,
operating system, mobile code, sensors, microprocessors, new I/O and
user interfaces, computer networks, mobile protocols, location and
positioning, and new materials.

This paradigm is also described as pervasive computing, ambient
intelligence, or "everyware". Each term emphasizes slightly different
aspects. When primarily concerning the objects involved, it is also
known as physical computing, the Internet of Things, haptic computing,
and "things that think". Rather than propose a single definition for
ubiquitous computing and for these related terms, a taxonomy of
properties for ubiquitous computing has been proposed, from which
different kinds or flavors of ubiquitous systems and applications can
be described.

Ubiquitous computing themes include: distributed computing, mobile
computing, location computing, mobile networking, sensor networks,
humanâ€“computer interaction, context-aware smart home technologies, and
artificial intelligence.
